Live Share Ignite 2022 Updates (#7162)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/apps-in-teams-meetings/teams-live-share-canvas.md

---
title: Live Share canvas overview
author: surbhigupta

> description: In this module, learn more about Live Share canvas, an extension enabling turn-key inking, laser pointers, and cursors for meeting apps.

Reviewer: Does turn-key pass PoliCheck requirements?

```bash
yarn add @microsoft/live-share
yarn add @microsoft/live-share-canvas
```

## Setting up the package

Live Share canvas has two primary classes that enable turn-key collaboration: `InkingManager` and `LiveCanvas`. `InkingManager` is responsible for attaching a fully-featured `<canvas>` element to your app, while `LiveCanvas` manages the remote synchronization with other meeting participants. Used together, your app can have complete whiteboard-like functionality in just a few lines of code.

| Classes                                                                     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | [InkingManager](/javascript/api/@microsoft/live-share-canvas/inkingmanager) | Class that attaches a `<canvas>` element to a given `<div>` to automatically manage pen/highlighter strokes, laser pointer, lines & arrows, erasers, and cursors. Exposes a set of APIs to control which tool is active and basic configuration settings. |

Reviewer 2: Nit: Cursors are actually handled by LiveCanvas alone.

| [LiveCanvas](/javascript/api/@microsoft/live-share-canvas/livecanvas)       | A `SharedObject` class that synchronizes strokes & cursor positions from `InkingManager` for everyone in a Live Share session.                                                                                                                            |

Example:

```html
<body>
  <div id="canvas-host"></div>
</body>
```

# [JavaScript](#tab/javascript)

```javascript

> import * as microsoftTeams from "@microsoft/teams-js";

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is actually necessary. I added a reference to the Teams client SDK to the demo as I was trying to get the user's display name (and picture) for live cursors, but ended borrowing your random user generator.

Author: @dclaux this is actually the way Steve changed the SDK. `joinContainer` is now in teams-js

import { TeamsFluidClient } from "@microsoft/live-share";
import { InkingManager, LiveCanvas } from "@microsoft/live-share-canvas";

// Initialize the Teams Client SDK

> await microsoftTeams.app.initialize();

Reviewer 2: Probably not necessary.

Author: We get feedback in docs that the code snippets people copy don't work, and it is often because stuff like this is omitted. I suppose app.initialize may be a decent place to draw the line though

// Setup the Fluid container
const client = new TeamsFluidClient();
const schema = {
  initialObjects: { liveCanvas: LiveCanvas },
};
const { container } = await client.joinContainer(schema);
const { liveCanvas } = container.initialObjects;

// Get the canvas host element
const canvasHostElement = document.getElementById("canvas-host");
const inkingManager = new InkingManager(canvasHostElement);

// Begin synchronization for LiveCanvas
await liveCanvas.initialize(inkingManager);
```

# [TypeScript](#tab/typescript)

```TypeScript

> import * as microsoftTeams from "@microsoft/teams-js";

Reviewer 2: Probably not necessary.

Author: Same comment as above: way joinContainer works now

import { TeamsFluidClient } from "@microsoft/live-share";
import { InkingManager, LiveCanvas } from "@microsoft/live-share-canvas";
import { ContainerSchema } from "fluid-framework";

// Initialize the Teams Client SDK

> await microsoftTeams.app.initialize();

Reviewer 2: Probably not necessary.

// Setup the Fluid container
const client = new TeamsFluidClient();
const schema: ContainerSchema = {
  initialObjects: { liveCanvas: LiveCanvas },
};
const { container } = await client.joinContainer(schema);
const liveCanvas = container.initialObjects.liveCanvas as LiveCanvas;

// Get the canvas host element
const canvasHostElement = document.getElementById("canvas-host");
const inkingManager = new InkingManager(canvasHostElement);

// Begin synchronization for LiveCanvas
await liveCanvas.initialize(inkingManager);
```

---

## Canvas tools & cursors

> Now that you understand how to set up the Live Share canvas and it is being synchronized, you can now configure the canvas for user interaction, such as with buttons to select a pen tool.

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove "now" in "you can now configure" since the whole sentence starts with "Now"

};
// Change the selected tool to eraser to erase points in strokes
document.getElementById("point-eraser").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.tool = InkingTool.pointEraser;
};
// Change the selected tool to laser pointer with disappearing strokes & custom color
document.getElementById("laser-pointer").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.laserPointerBrush.color = fromCssColor("#3BDE3B"); // optional
  inkingManager.tool = InkingTool.laserPointer;
};
// Change the selected tool to line with arrow at end
document.getElementById("arrow").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.tool = InkingTool.line;
  inkingManager.lineBrush.endArrow = "open"; // optional
};
// Clear all strokes, lines, etc. from the canvas
document.getElementById("clear").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.clear();
};
// Enable cursor sharing within the Live Canvas
document.getElementById("cursors").onclick = () => {
  // Optional. Set user display info
  liveCanvas.onGetLocalUserInfo = () => {
    return {
      displayName: "YOUR USER NAME",
      pictureUri: "YOUR USER PICTURE URI",
    };
  };
  // Toggle Live Canvas cursor enabled state
  liveCanvas.isCursorShared = !isCursorShared;
};
```

## Optimizing across devices

> For most applications in the web, content will render differently depending on screen size or varying application state. If `InkingManager` isn't optimized correctly for your app, that could cause strokes and cursors to appear differently for each user. Fortunately, Live Share canvas supports a simple set of APIs that can allow the `<canvas>` to adjust stroke positions to align correctly with your content.

Reviewer 2: Maybe for most applications **on** the web?

> By default, Live Share canvas works a lot like a whiteboard app, with the content being center aligned to the viewport with a 1x zoom level. Only part of the content is being rendered within the visible bounds of the `<canvas>`. Conceptually, it is like a recording a video from birdseye view. While the viewport of the camera is recording a portion of the world beneath it, the real world stretches nearly infinitely in every direction.

Reviewer 2: "Conceptually, it is like ~~a~~ recording a video"

Here is a simple diagram to help visualize this concept:

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-live-share/live-share-canvas-capabilities-docs-diagram-1.png" alt-text="Live Share canvas viewport visualization":::

You can customize this behavior in the following ways:

- Changing the starting reference point to the top-left corner of the canvas.

> - Alter the offset x and y positions of the viewport.

Reviewer 2: Maybe precise that the offset is in pixels

```javascript
// ...

// Pan left
document.getElementById("pan-left").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x - 10,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y,
  };
};
// Pan up
document.getElementById("pan-up").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y - 10,
  };
};
// Pan right
document.getElementById("pan-right").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x + 10,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y,
  };
};
// Pan down
document.getElementById("pan-down").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y + 10,
  };
};
// Zoom out
document.getElementById("zoom-out").onclick = () => {
  if (inkingManager.scale > 0.1) {
    inkingManager.scale -= 0.1;
  }
};
// Zoom in
document.getElementById("zoom-in").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.scale += 0.1;
};
// Change reference
document.getElementById("change-reference").onclick = () => {
  if (inkingManager.referencePoint === "center") {
    inkingManager.referencePoint = "topLeft";
  } else {
    inkingManager.referencePoint = "center";
  }
};
```

## Ideal scenarios

> With web pages coming in all shapes and sizes, it isn't possible to make Live Share canvas work for every scenario. The package is ideal for scenarios at which all users are looking at the same content at the same time. While not all of the content needs to be visible on the screen, it must be content that scales across devices linearly.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "scenarios IN which all users..."?

Here are a couple examples of scenarios where Live Share canvas is a great option for your application:

- Overlay images and videos that render with the same aspect ratio on all clients.
- Viewing a map, 3D model, or whiteboard from the same rotation angle.

> The reason both of these scenarios work well is because being viewed is the same on all devices, even though users may be looking at it with different zoom levels and offsets. If your app content doesn't fit one of these scenarios, it likely isn't a good fit for your scenario.

Reviewer 2: You seem to have something missing between "because" and "being viewed".

I would rephrase the second sentence into "If your app's layout and content change depending on screen size, and it is not possible or practical to generate a temporary reference/common view for all participants, Live Share canvas might not be a good fit for your scenario."

const schema = {
  initialObjects: { liveCanvas: LiveCanvas },
};
const { container } = await liveShare.joinContainer(schema);
const { liveCanvas } = container.initialObjects;

// Get the canvas host element
const canvasHostElement = document.getElementById("canvas-host");
const inkingManager = new InkingManager(canvasHostElement);

// Begin synchronization for LiveCanvas
await liveCanvas.initialize(inkingManager);
```

# [TypeScript](#tab/typescript)

```TypeScript
import { liveShare } from "@microsoft/teams-js";
import { InkingManager, LiveCanvas } from "@microsoft/live-share-canvas";
import { ContainerSchema } from "fluid-framework";

// Setup the Fluid container
liveShare.initialize();
const schema: ContainerSchema = {
  initialObjects: { liveCanvas: LiveCanvas },
};
const { container } = await liveShare.joinContainer(schema);
const liveCanvas = container.initialObjects.liveCanvas as LiveCanvas;

// Get the canvas host element
const canvasHostElement = document.getElementById("canvas-host");
const inkingManager = new InkingManager(canvasHostElement);

// Begin synchronization for LiveCanvas
await liveCanvas.initialize(inkingManager);
```

---

## Canvas tools & cursors

> Now that you understand how to set up the Live Share canvas and it is being synchronized, you can now configure the canvas for user interaction, such as with buttons to select a pen tool. In this section, we will discuss what tools are available and how to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the Live Share Canvas is set up and synchronizing, you can configure the canvas for user interaction, such as buttons to select a pen tool. In this section, we will discuss what tools are available and how to use them.
```

### Inking tools

> Each of the inking tools in Live Share canvas render strokes as users draw. If using a touch screen or stylus, the tools also support pressure. Configuration settings include brush color, thickness, shape, and an optional end arrow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of the inking tools in Live Share canvas renders strokes as users draw. If using a touch screen or stylus, the tools also support pressure dynamics, affecting stroke width. Configuration settings include brush color, thickness, shape, and an optional end arrow.
```

The pen tool draws solid strokes that are stored into the canvas. The default tip shape is a circle.

```html
<div>
  <button id="pen">Enable Pen</button>
  <label for="pen-color">Select a color:</label>
  <input type="color" id="color" name="color" value="#000000" />
  <button id="pen-tip-size">Increase pen size</button>
</div>
```

```javascript
import {
  InkingManager,
  InkingTool,
  fromCssColor,
} from "@microsoft/live-share-canvas";
// ...

// Change the selected tool to pen
document.getElementById("pen").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.tool = InkingTool.pen;
};
// Change the selected color for pen
document.getElementById("pen-color").onchange = () => {
  const colorPicker = document.getElementById("color");
  inkingManager.penBrush.color = fromCssColor(colorPicker.value);
};
// Increase the tip size for pen
document.getElementById("pen-tip-size").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.penBrush.tipSize = inkingManager.penBrush.tipSize + 1;
};
```

#### Highlighter tool

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-live-share/canvas-highlighter-tool.gif" alt-text="Teams Live Share canvas highlighter tool":::

> The highlighter tool draws opaque strokes that are stored into the canvas. The default tip shape is a square.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The highlighter tool draws transparency strokes that are stored into the canvas. The default tip shape is a square.
```

```html
<div>
  <button id="highlighter">Enable Highlighter</button><br />
  <label for="highlighter-color">Select a color:</label>

>   <input type="color" id="highlighter-color" name="highlighter-color" value="#000000" />

Reviewer: Should default color be yellow?

  <input type="color" id="laser-color" name="laser-color" value="#000000" />
  <button id="laser-tip-size">Increase tip size</button>
</div>
```

```javascript
import {
  InkingManager,
  InkingTool,
  fromCssColor,
} from "@microsoft/live-share-canvas";
// ...

// Change the selected tool to laser pointer
document.getElementById("laser").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.tool = InkingTool.highlighter;
};
// Change the selected color for laser pointer
document.getElementById("laser-color").onchange = () => {
  const colorPicker = document.getElementById("laser-color");
  inkingManager.laserPointerBrush.color = fromCssColor(colorPicker.value);
};
// Increase the tip size for laser pointer
document.getElementById("laser-tip-size").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.laserPointerBrush.tipSize = inkingManager.laserPointerBrush.tipSize + 1;
};
```

#### Line and arrow tools

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-live-share/canvas-line-tool.gif" alt-text="Teams Live Share canvas line tool":::

The line tool allows users to draw straight lines from one point to another, with an optional arrow that can be applied to the end.

> 

Reviewer: Do you think we should add a comment about pressing shift will force a 90degre or 180 degree line?

Author: Probably, but then I have to go into all of the keyboard shortcuts in a table. I'll see if I find time.

### Cursors

:::image type="content" source="../assets/images/teams-live-share/canvas-cursors.gif" alt-text="Teams Live Share cursor sharing":::

You can enable live cursors in your application for users to track each other's cursor positions on the canvas. Unlike the inking tools, cursors operate entirely through the `LiveCanvas` class. You can optionally provide a name and picture to identify each user. You can enable cursors separately or with the inking tools.

```javascript
// Optional. Set user display info
liveCanvas.onGetLocalUserInfo = () => {
  return {
    displayName: "YOUR USER NAME",
    pictureUri: "YOUR USER PICTURE URI",
  };
};
// Toggle Live Canvas cursor enabled state
liveCanvas.isCursorShared = !isCursorShared;
```

## Optimizing across devices

For most applications on the web, content renders differently depending on the screen size or varying application state. If `InkingManager` isn't optimized correctly for your app, it might cause strokes and cursors to appear differently for each user. Live Share canvas supports a simple set of APIs, which allows the `<canvas>` to adjust stroke positions to align correctly with your content.

> By default, Live Share canvas works a lot like a whiteboard app, with the content being center aligned to the viewport with a 1x zoom level. Only part of the content is being rendered within the visible bounds of the `<canvas>`. Conceptually, it is like recording a video from birdseye view. While the viewport of the camera is recording a portion of the world beneath it, the real world stretches nearly infinitely in every direction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Live Share canvas works a lot like a whiteboard app, with the content being center aligned to the viewport with a 1x zoom level. Only part of the content is being rendered within the visible bounds of the `<canvas>`. Conceptually, it is like recording a video from bird's-eye view. While the viewport of the camera is recording a portion of the world beneath it, the real world stretches nearly infinitely in every direction.
```

```javascript
// ...

// Pan left
document.getElementById("pan-left").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x - 10,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y,
  };
};
// Pan up
document.getElementById("pan-up").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y - 10,
  };
};
// Pan right
document.getElementById("pan-right").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x + 10,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y,
  };
};
// Pan down
document.getElementById("pan-down").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.offset = {
    x: inkingManager.offset.x,
    y: inkingManager.offset.y + 10,
  };
};
// Zoom out
document.getElementById("zoom-out").onclick = () => {
  if (inkingManager.scale > 0.1) {
    inkingManager.scale -= 0.1;
  }
};
// Zoom in
document.getElementById("zoom-in").onclick = () => {
  inkingManager.scale += 0.1;
};
// Change reference
document.getElementById("change-reference").onclick = () => {
  if (inkingManager.referencePoint === "center") {
    inkingManager.referencePoint = "topLeft";
  } else {
    inkingManager.referencePoint = "center";
  }
};
```

## Ideal scenarios

> With web pages coming in all shapes and sizes, it isn't possible to make Live Share canvas work for every scenario. The package is ideal for scenarios in which all users are looking at the same content at the same time. While not all of the content needs to be visible on the screen, it must be content that scales across devices linearly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With web pages coming in all shapes and sizes, it isn't possible to make Live Share canvas to anticipate every scenario. The package is ideal for scenarios in which all users are looking at the same content at the same time. While not all of the content needs to be visible on the screen, it must be content that scales across devices linearly.
```
